The Assembly will now hear an address by His Excellency Kamil el-Tayeb Idris, the Transitional Prime Minister of the Republic of Sudan. I request protocol to escort His Excellency and invite him to address the Assembly. Madam Annalena Raibok, President of the General Assembly, His Excellency Antonio Guterres, Secretary General of the United Nations, Your Excellencies and Majesties, Kings and Heads of State and Government, Your Excellency, Ministers, Ladies and Gentlemen, Heads of Delegations, Peace and God's Blessings be upon you. I congratulate Ms. Annalena Raibok on her election as President of the General Assembly's 80th session. I also congratulate Mr. Philemon Yang on his Presidency of the General Assembly at its previous session and we appreciate his good performance and the efforts that he made for the cause of peace. We especially appreciate His Excellency, the Secretary General of the United Nations, Mr. Antonio Guterres for his tireless efforts and valuable initiatives for peace and justice and for the achievement of the goals and principles of the United Nations and for his support for the causes of developing countries. I stand before you today on behalf of the civilian government of the Sudan and on behalf of the proud Sudanese people to fulfill the pledge made by His Excellency President Abdel Fattah al-Burhan, Chairman of the Sovereignty Council, at this August Global Forum, a pledge to appoint a civilian Prime Minister with independent powers to consolidate the values of civilian governance and democratic transition. I stand before you from the banks of the Nile, from the land where history runs as deep as the river itself, from where the deserts know the footprints of ancient kingdoms, ancient civilizations, and from where in this present hour, this present hour, the dust still carries the scent of war. Sudan has bled. Our villages and cities have fallen silent under the shadow of unprecedented war, unprecedented invasion in the history of mankind. Our children have known fear before they have known the meaning of life. And yet, and yet, amid the ashes of war, there is a unique pulse that refuses to die. It beats in the refugees' quiet prayer, in the farmer who plants, though he may never reap, and in the mother, the mother who sings her child to sleep beneath an open sky. From that pulse, distinguished leaders of the world, from that pulse, I share with you these words. Hope reborn of our unity and strength emanating in our peace. I wish to say, in addition to this, that Sudan is a great civilization. Its resources are necessary for the entire world. Madam President, we are witnessing great challenges. We are facing enormous dangers posed to the principles of the charter and multilateralism while threatening regional and international stability. Meanwhile, the norms of international law are being eroded as the crimes of genocide, aggression, and the employment of foreign mercenaries to occupy the territories of states and slaughter their peoples. These crimes multiply in contempt of the charter and in violation of international law, as is now happening in my country. Mr. President, we must build trust, we must reinforce transparency, and strengthen the role of the General Assembly, preventive diplomacy, and the peaceful settlement of conflicts. The capacity and the role of the United Nations can be strengthened through collective action and multilateral international cooperation. We can take advantage of the momentum generated by the UNAT initiative, the outcomes of the future summits, and of major international conferences. Despite the international consensus on the illegality of unilateral sanctions and unilateral coercive measures which violate international law, these sanctions continue. They are imposed for political reasons which threaten the values and bonds of international cooperation, international relations, and the rights of peoples to development, well-being, and the enjoyment of human rights, especially in developing and least developed countries. We are concerned over the political exploitation of human rights and their use as a means to pressure our country without considering the economic aspects of human rights that are affected by these unilateral sanctions and measures. We renew our absolute rejection of hate speech, racism, extremism, Islamophobia, and all forms of discrimination and racial supremacy that threaten humanity as a whole. Madam President, during the past three years, the people of Sudan have been subject to existential dangers and threats as a result of the crimes perpetrated by the rebel rapid support militia. The people of Sudan have been forced out of their homes and of their homeland to flee systematic killing and torture and looting and rape and humiliation and the savage destruction of all the basic components of life. These actions were deliberate. These actions were part of an integrated project to control Sudan, to plunder its wealth, and to change the demographics of its population. Preserving the sovereignty of the state and its well-established national institutions is a top priority. It's an existential issue for the Sudanese people. Therefore, the civilian transition and democratic transformation under the leadership of the civilian government of hope and the establishment of peace will not be achieved without ensuring that we have strong national institutions that preserve the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the state, the international community. And you are the leaders of this international community. You are the entire international family. The international community must work to stop the flows of lethal weapons, advanced ones, to the terrorist militia. It must condemn the militia, criminalize it, and classify it as a terrorist group and must stop the flow of mercenaries. Violating Resolution 1591 threatens to prolong the war and prolong the suffering of civilians with it. It decreases the chances of peace and threatens the safety, unity, and stability of Sudan and the entire region. Achieving comprehensive peace in Sudan requires the participation of Sudanese political forces and the different walks of Sudanese society in decision-making and in determining their future because they are the true stakeholders. There must be no foreign interference or pressure, no hasty partial solutions, and no support for ethnic political extremism that plots to destroy Sudan. We affirm from this podium the commitment of the government of Sudan to the roadmap which was drawn up by a group of national forces and civil organizations and which we presented to the United Nations and to the mediators. This roadmap includes a ceasefire accompanied by the withdrawal of the terrorist rapid support militia from the areas and cities it occupies. It includes lifting the siege on the city of al-Fashr immediately, as well as the city's environs and implementation of Security Council Resolution 2736 adopted over a year ago. Imagine this, this resolution was adopted by the Security Council over a year ago and nothing has happened to this very day. Is this plausible? Let us take a moment to reflect, children are dying, women are dying, the elderly are dying because of starvation and the international community is silent. All of these measures include the dignified and safe return of the displaced and of refugees. It includes facilitating humanitarian access to the needy and affected and continuing with the transitional political process towards democracy. Here advanced steps, truly advanced ones have been taken to implement this roadmap. I have formed a civilian government of technocrats that will engage in a Sudanese-Sudanese national dialogue that includes all political and societal forces to lay the groundwork for elections that are free and fair and to engage positively with regional and international communities. In this context, the government has committed and continues to facilitate all procedures for all Sudanese citizens abroad to return and engage in this important historic dialogue. Mr. President, one of the priorities of the civilian government of hope is to work to achieve objectives that include the following, achieving peace as a top priority, establishing the rule of law, a state based on the rule of law, fighting poverty and corruption in all its forms, activating transitional justice, accountability, ending impunity, adopting a balanced foreign policy, engaging positively with international and regional organizations, providing services such as electricity, water, security, pensions, revitalizing rural development, providing national health care and laying the groundwork for comprehensive national elections with regional and international observers. We will work to remove the remnants of war, to return to the national capital Khartoum and start reconstruction efforts, raise the quality of the health sector and increase the participation of women and youth in the national dialogue for peace. Mr. President, the government of Sudan affirms its commitment to humanitarian international law. The government of Sudan developed a comprehensive national plan for the protection of civilians that it submitted to the Security Council and the Secretary General of the United Nations. The plan covers all aspects of protection, including the establishment of a national mechanism of protection and a mechanism that facilitates humanitarian access and supports the United Nations humanitarian efforts and the rule of law, accountability and action to halt the proliferation of weapons and combat violence against women and children. This plan addresses issues of displaced persons and the refugees and seeks to achieve a comprehensive peace. Moreover, the government has signed a cooperation framework with the United Nations. And in this regard, the government renews its commitment to facilitate, protect and secure the passage of humanitarian aid through all the agreed-upon crossings identified by the government of Sudan. The continued international silence on the crimes of the rebel terrorist militia and their siege of the city of al-Fashr and their bombing of IDP camps and places of worship and educational institutions, their looting of markets and of public and private property and their destruction of health facilities throughout the country. This silence is tantamount to an encouragement and to giving a green light for these militias to continue with their crimes and their violations. Our doors will remain open to the United Nations and regional and international organizations. We call on the international community to support the choices of the Sudanese people and their civilian government and to support African solutions to conflicts through their will and national ownership and without any tutelage. Mr. President, the dangerous deterioration and escalation and the status quo, what has become of the situation in the Middle East, especially the catastrophic situation in occupied Palestine and the Gaza Strip, warn of serious consequences for the region and its peoples. And here we renew our conviction that no stability and no security will be achieved in the region without a just and permanent and comprehensive settlement of the Palestinian question. That would allow for the establishment of an independent, sovereign Palestinian state with Al-Quds as its capital on the borders of June 1967 in accordance with international legitimacy resolutions. And here we condemn the blatant Israeli attack on the sovereignty of the central state of Qatar, which threatens international peace and security. We are supportive of peace and security, human rights, and sustainable development goals, without which there will be no lasting peace. However, let me say clearly and openly, our sovereignty and territorial integrity are red lines. We will never give up. I promise you we will never give up. And I thank you for your attention. On behalf of the Assembly, I wish to thank His Excellency the Transitional Prime Minister of the Republic of Sudan.