The Assembly will hear and address by His Excellency Imam Ali Rahman, President of the Republic of Tajikistan. I request the protocol to escort His Excellency and invite him to address the Assembly. Your Excellency, Madam President, Excellency, Ladies and Gentlemen, Today, as we commemorate the 80th anniversary of the adoption of the United Nations Charter, I extend to all Member States my heartfelt congratulations and best wishes on this occasion. The contemporary world is undeniably experiencing a period of instability, turbulence, unpredictability and escalating complexity. Geopolitical tensions, efforts to reshape a framework of international relations, conflicts and confrontations in different parts of the world, along with a series of security threats and challenges, have posed significant risks to lasting peace and safety. At the same time, the consequences of climate change and growing social inequality impose restrictions on the process of sustainable global development. In such a complex and turbulent circumstance, the role of the United Nations as a platform for inclusive dialogue, cooperation and the promotion of peace and security worldwide becomes more important than ever. In this regard, our countries should make joint and consistent efforts in international practice to protect this principle, return to full compliance with international law. In this process, strengthening equal cooperation among small and large states is also considered to be an important and timely step. Madam President, Tajikistan's National Development Strategy 2030 is fully aligned with the Sustainable Development Goals and we support a full and timely implementation of this item of global agenda. Unfortunately, developing countries, particularly those mountainous and landlocked, face multiple challenges and difficulties in achieving these goals, particularly vulnerable countries feel the need to take serious measures to ensure sustainable development, financing and improve access to financial resources. Despite significant attempts in this field, the amount of funding for sustainable development offered by the international community continues to be insufficient to address their current need. This situation necessitates timely response, the allocation of additional funds and a review of approach to the international financial architecture and system. Tajikistan advocates for effective and fair reforms of international financial instruments. At present, we are observing varying degrees of economic progress among nations and the influence of developed nations and international financial organizations could play a significant role in tackling this issue. Many developing and less developed countries remain vulnerable to the impacts of economic and financial crisis, poverty, infectious diseases, including COVID, natural disasters and food insecurity. They need to implement effective financial support measures including debt relief. In our view, now is the high time to seriously consider this important item. Ladies and gentlemen, today climate change related issues in various countries around the world, including Tajikistan, pose serious obstacles to the development of sustainable development. to achieving the sustainable development goals. Our country with 93% of its land covered by mountains is deeply concerned of an adverse effect of this situation. Changes in the hydrological cycle, a series of floods and droughts and severe dust storms over the past decades have had a direct impact on Tajikistan's water and energy resources and food security. Every year we suffer tremendous material and financial losses due to water related natural disasters. Regrettably, these phenomena often result in loss of life and the destruction of vital infrastructure. The impacts of climate change and rising temperatures have led to accelerated melting of glaciers and the deterioration of marine and ocean ecosystems. I would like to recall that Tajikistan hosted the High-Level International Conference on Glacier Preservation this summer in Dushanbe. This meeting brought the international community together to intensely deliberate on issues related to the cryosphere. It is worth noting that of Tajikistan's 14,000 glaciers, which are one of the region's main sources of drinking water, more than 1,300 have completely melted and the rate of melting of these ices is accelerating. This is even though Tajikistan's glaciers and other water sources account for up to 60% of Central Asia's water resources. We must not remain indifferent to matters of addressing issues related to the source of human life, water. Distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, Tajikistan plays a proactive role in water diplomacy. Our country is taking practical steps in cooperation with its international partners as a part of its latest initiative, the International Decade for Action – Water for Sustainable Development 2018-2028. I call on Member States and stakeholders to actively participate in the next event within the Dushanbe Water Process, the High-Level International Conference which will be held in Tajikistan next year. This event will undoubtedly give a new impetus to our continued joint efforts within the framework of the Water Action Agenda. We are confident that it will also serve as a solid foundation for preparations for the 2028 United Nations Water Conference in Dushanbe. Madam President, Strong institutions and legal literacy are the ground of a just and stable society. Today the international community is witnessing disrespectful and violation of international law, which is the foundation of order, peace and stability throughout the world. We emphasize the need for strict adherence to international law and the resolution of all disputes and disagreements within the framework of the law. Being deeply aware of this reality, Tajikistan proposes that the United Nations General Assembly concede as proclaiming an International Year of Legal Literacy. We call on all Member States to join this initiative and strengthen the global culture of transparency and justice. Ladies and Gentlemen, The rapid adoption of digital technologies and effective use of artificial intelligence can noticeably contribute to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals. I would like to extend my profound gratitude to all Member States for their unwavering support of Tajikistan's proposal to adopt a special resolution entitled The Role of Artificial Intelligence in Creating New Opportunities for Sustainable Development in Central Asia. I am confident that the resolution adopted by the General Assembly on July 25th of this year will serve as a key instrument for the safe and equitable use of artificial intelligence in our region. We, in this context, conceded the establishment of a Regional Centre for Artificial Intelligence in Dushanbe to be favourable. This centre would undoubtedly facilitate an implementation of joint initiatives and projects among Central Asian countries in the field of artificial intelligence. It is worth noting that, along with the improvement of digital technologies, the number of new security threats, particularly cybercrime, is also growing. We therefore emphasise that cyber security must be an important component of collective security. It is evident that, along with cybercrime, terrorism, extremism, illegal weapons smuggling, drug trafficking and other forms of transnational organised crime continue to pose a serious threat to global security. Tajikistan supports the further expansion of international cooperation on global security within the framework of the Dushanbe counter-terrorism process. We are determined and willing to establish constructive interaction within this process with international organisations and the UN Member States to even more enhance efforts to counter the aforementioned threatened security risks. We believe that relevant UN agencies, in particular the Office of Counter-Terrorism, can make an effective contribution to the comprehensive implementation of global counter-terrorism strategies and programmes and strengthen their support to all Member States in this area. Distinguished participants, Tajikistan gives full support of the resolution of all disputes and conflicts through political and diplomatic means. We must redouble our efforts to enduring lasting and comprehensive peace based on international law. A year ago, from this podium I proposed considering a special United Nations resolution proclaiming a decade of promotion of peace for future generations. A year later, the adoption of such a resolution has become even more pressing. In today's complex and volatile world, this initiative will create conditions for international cooperation to achieve lasting peace. I call on all UN Member States to support this proposal for the sake of our current stability and a better and prosperous life for the generations to come. Ladies and gentlemen, we emphasise our principled and variable position on the Palestinian issue. We believe that lasting peace in the Middle East is possible only through the implementation of the United Nations Resolutions and the Principle of the Two-State Solution. In this regard, we recall the need to resolve this issue exclusively through negotiations and diplomatic means in accordance with international law, particularly the Charter of the United Nations. We call for a lasting ceasefire in Gaza and access to humanitarian aid. Tajikistan also supports peace and stability, overall security and socio-economic development in neighbouring Afghanistan. We are ready to render other full assistance in this process and in this regard call on the international community to provide humanitarian assistance, especially to regions affected by drought and recent severe earthquakes. Distinguished participants, Tajikistan supports the comprehensive reform of the United Nations system within the framework of the UNAT Initiative, UN 2.0 and the UN Secretary General's vision for a modernised United Nations. At the same time, we welcome the Pact for the Future as an important collective initiative to promote peace and sustainable development. These initiatives embody the shared aspirations and will of the international community to respond to modern threats and challenges and build a solid foundation for future generations. We reiterate the need to strengthen the key and coordinating role of the United Nations in ensuring inclusive peace and security. Only with trust, cooperation and unwavering determination we can build a just, peaceful and sustainable future for all humanity. Tajikistan stands ready to cooperate with partner countries and all United Nations Member States in achieving these noble goals and addressing other pressing issues on the global agenda. I thank you for your attention. On behalf of the Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Tajikistan.